#  **Keyestudio CNC Shield V3**

![](media/f1a3d9966aeb830a23f03d42cd6369b3.jpeg)

**Introduction:**

keyestudio CNC shield V3 is used as driving shield for engraving machines, fully
compatible with [UNO
R3](http://wiki.keyestudio.com/index.php/Ks0001_keyestudio_UNO_R3_BOARD). so you
just need to stack it onto UNO R3 control board when using.

It has total 4-way pin slots for stepper motor drive modules (Not Included) to
drive 4-channel stepper motors.

Each stepper motor only needs 2 IO ports, so 8 IO ports is enough to manage 4
stepper motors, very easy to use. This shield can make quick work for managing
stepper motors in your project.

**Note that** the three X/Y/Z-axis drive module headers have been connected by
default, so just need to plug the modules onto the shield when using. But do not
connect the circuit of drive module A, you should connect it to digital ports to
control the rotating direction and speed of motor ( A_DIR ; A_STP).

To easily debug the operating mode of stepper motor driver board, there are 3
jumper caps under each pin slots. You can set the working mode by plugging or
unplugging the jumper cap.

For example, connect the
[A4988](http://www.keyestudio.com/keyestudio-reprap-stepper-motor-driver.html)
to the shield, unplug three jumpers, it is in full-step mode; if plug all the
jumpers, it is 16-subdivision working mode.

![](media/210d6880e118cab6b9fa7bf00b192190.jpeg)Different kinds of interfaces
are brought out on this shield, so you can connect some external devices as you
like.

**Check out these awesome specifications:**

-   [UNO R3 control
    board](http://wiki.keyestudio.com/index.php/Ks0001_keyestudio_UNO_R3_BOARD)
    compatible

-   Supports the software
    [*GrblController361Setup*](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1JSCtHr7FLF7UMxXeVGpwMbWn3BVZo7jh)

-   Can drive the X/Y/Z-axis stepper motors (connected default), and step motor
    A (should connect to Digital ports).

-   X/Y/Z-axis drive module headers have connected the circuit, directly plug
    the drive module onto the shield when using. Default by X_STP (connected to
    D2); X_DIR (D5); Y_STP (D3); Y_DIR(D6); Z_STP (D4); Z_DIR(D7).

-   Control the drive module via jumper cap. (Note: If connect the
    [A4988](http://www.keyestudio.com/keyestudio-reprap-stepper-motor-driver.html),
    unplug three jumpers, as full-step mode; if plug the jumpers, 16-subdivision
    working mode.)

-   The enabled port (EN) of all drive modules has been connected to D8.

-   Comes with three 4pin headers of 2.54mm pitch for 42 step motor connection.

-   Can supply the 4 stepper motor drive modules with DC 12V voltage via the
    blue terminal blocks.

-   Other communication ports, like the serial communication, I2C communication.

**Technical Details:**

-   Dimensions: 69mm x 54mm x15mm

-   Weight: 31g

**![](media/efa92997e7b535dd1dbb57dc536a7568.jpeg)**

**Pinout Instructions:**

**![](media/b790b458855e52c28f2d9fa2006d4a43.jpeg)**

**Using Method:**

When using this shield, on the hardware, you need to use it with the control
board ([UNO
R3](http://wiki.keyestudio.com/index.php/Ks0001_keyestudio_UNO_R3_BOARD)), the
drive board (such as
[A4988](http://www.keyestudio.com/keyestudio-reprap-stepper-motor-driver.html)),
the motor (42 stepper motor) and others. And you need to burn the firmware to
the control board. So need to use the software [Arduino
IDE](http://wiki.keyestudio.com/index.php/How_to_Download_Arduino_IDE), and the
special upper computer software, such as [GrblController361Setup
software.](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1JSCtHr7FLF7UMxXeVGpwMbWn3BVZo7jh)

For detailed use, refer to our [keyestudio CNC
kit](http://wiki.keyestudio.com/index.php/Ks0095_Arduino_CNC_Kit_/_CNC_Shield_V3.0_%2Bkeyestudio_Uno_R3%2B4pcs_a4988_Driver_/_GRBL_Compatible)
on wiki website.
