# **Keyestudio SK6812 Shield**

![ks0416 (1)](media/15e88497474d565d9a1c1aa386590e45.jpeg)

 Introduction:

keyestudio SK6812 shield is particularly designed for Arduino controllers.
Simply stack the shield onto UNO board to use.

The 40 SK6812 LEDs are all controlled by D13 pin on UNO board. When using,
connect other components to the female headers of 2.54mm pitch, controlled by
UNO board.

SK6812 LED is an intelligent controlled LED light source that integrates the
control circuit and light-emitting circuit.

Each LED shape is as same as a 5050LED bead. Each element is a pixel. Each pixel
interior not only includes intelligent digital port data latch and signal
reshaping amplification drive circuit, but also includes a precision internal
oscillator and a 12V programmable constant current control part, effectively
ensuring the highly consistency of the pixel point light color.

The data transfer protocol uses single RZ (return-to-zero) communication mode.
After the pixel power-on to reset, the DI port receives data from controller,
the first 24bit data is extracted by the first pixel,and then sent to the data
latch inside the pixel. After being amplified by the internal shaping processing
circuit, the remaining data will be forwarded to the next cascade pixel point
through the DO port of the LED.

The signal will be reduced by 24bit for each pixel point transmission.

The automatic shaping and forwarding technology is adopted for the pixel points,
so that the cascade number of the pixel points is not limited by the signal
transmission, and only limited by the signal transmission speed requirement.

LED has the advantages of low driving voltage, environmental-friendly, energy
saving, high brightness, large scattering angle, good consistency, long life
span, etc.

![ks0416 (7)](media/7d3ed36188af86d0466e15798aa0c123.jpeg)

 Specifications of Single LED:

1.  Anti-reverse protection circuit; the reverse power connection will not
    damage the internal IC of the LED.

2.  IC control circuit and LED point light source use the same power supply.

3.  Control circuit and the RGB chip are integrated into a 5050 packaged
    component, forming a complete external-control pixel point.

4.  Built-in signal shaping circuit; the signals received by any pixel point
    will be waveform shaping first and then output, ensuring the circuit
    waveform distortion not accumulate.

5.  Built-in power-on reset circuit and power-down reset circuit.

6.  Each pixel of the three primary color can achieve 256 brightness display;
    complete full-color display of 16777216 kinds of color; scan frequency no
    less than 400Hz/s.

7.  Serial cascade interface, to complete the reception and decoding of data via
    a signal line.

8.  When transmission distance between any two arbitrary points is no more than
    5 meters, no extra circuit needed.

9.  When the refresh rate is 30fps, cascade number no less than 1024 points.

10. Data sending speed can reach 800Kbps.

11. The color of the light is highly consistent, cost-effective.

**Advantages:**

1.  Built-in IC light bead is brighter than common light bead

2.  High consistency of RGB chips inside all LEDs

3.  Reliable performance of built-in drive IC

4.  Use hard plastic packaging, preventing press damage.

**Details:**

-   Environmental attributes: ROHS

-   Dimensions: 69mm x 57mm x 19mm

-   Weight: 21g

**![资料用 (1)](media/b9af7e7d0810a45f61fe8dcef21a7206.jpeg)**

 PINOUTS:

**![资料用 (2)](media/0d6fab96808cd009799fd3f8bd302e95.jpeg)**

 Simple Hookup

Simply stack the shield onto the UNO board.

![01](media/03d21dfd66980984e0a876a7e96ff12b.jpeg)

 Sample Code

-   How to download and install [Arduino
    IDE](http://wiki.keyestudio.com/index.php/How_to_Download_Arduino_IDE) and
    [driver](http://wiki.keyestudio.com/index.php/How_to_Install_Arduino_Driver).

-   Or [click here to download the
    code](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1ngIb-HNwKNJFYybe5uu9Eto1hbsu5n9M) or
    directly copy the code below. [Click
    here](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1XrXVZWfeDJ3LEzdauq8oFsSwcXSkRVRu) to
    download the libraries.

-   Note: Before compile the code, do remember to add the necessary libraries
    inside the libraries directory of Arduino IDE.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

**\#include \<Adafruit_NeoPixel.h\>\#ifdef \__AVR__\#include
\<avr/power.h\>\#endif\#define PIN 13// Parameter 1 = number of pixels in
strip// Parameter 2 = Arduino pin number (most are valid)// Parameter 3 = pixel
type flags, add together as needed:// NEO_KHZ800 800 KHz bitstream (most
NeoPixel products w/WS2812 LEDs)// NEO_KHZ400 400 KHz (classic 'v1' (not v2)
FLORA pixels, WS2811 drivers)// NEO_GRB Pixels are wired for GRB bitstream (most
NeoPixel products)// NEO_RGB Pixels are wired for RGB bitstream (v1 FLORA
pixels, not v2)Adafruit_NeoPixel strip = Adafruit_NeoPixel(40, PIN, NEO_GRB +
NEO_KHZ800);// IMPORTANT: To reduce NeoPixel burnout risk, add 1000 uF capacitor
across// pixel power leads, add 300 - 500 Ohm resistor on first pixel's data
input// and minimize distance between Arduino and first pixel. Avoid
connecting// on a live circuit...if you must, connect GND first.void setup() {
// This is for Trinket 5V 16MHz, you can remove these three lines if you are not
using a Trinket \#if defined (__AVR_ATtiny85__) if (F_CPU == 16000000)
clock_prescale_set(clock_div_1); \#endif // End of trinket special code
strip.begin(); strip.show(); // Initialize all pixels to 'off'}void loop() { //
Some example procedures showing how to display to the pixels:
colorWipe(strip.Color(255, 0, 0), 50); // Red colorWipe(strip.Color(0, 255, 0),
50); // Green colorWipe(strip.Color(0, 0, 255), 50); // Blue // Send a theater
pixel chase in... theaterChase(strip.Color(127, 127, 127), 50); // White
theaterChase(strip.Color(127, 0, 0), 50); // Red theaterChase(strip.Color(0, 0,
127), 50); // Blue rainbow(20); rainbowCycle(20); theaterChaseRainbow(50);}//
Fill the dots one after the other with a colorvoid colorWipe(uint32_t c, uint8_t
wait) { for(uint16_t i=0; i\<strip.numPixels(); i++) { strip.setPixelColor(i,
c); strip.show(); delay(wait); }}void rainbow(uint8_t wait) { uint16_t i, j;
for(j=0; j\<256; j++) { for(i=0; i\<strip.numPixels(); i++) {
strip.setPixelColor(i, Wheel((i+j) & 255)); } strip.show(); delay(wait); }}//
Slightly different, this makes the rainbow equally distributed throughoutvoid
rainbowCycle(uint8_t wait) { uint16_t i, j; for(j=0; j\<256\*5; j++) { // 5
cycles of all colors on wheel for(i=0; i\< strip.numPixels(); i++) {
strip.setPixelColor(i, Wheel(((i \* 256 / strip.numPixels()) + j) & 255)); }
strip.show(); delay(wait); }}//Theatre-style crawling lights.void
theaterChase(uint32_t c, uint8_t wait) { for (int j=0; j\<10; j++) { //do 10
cycles of chasing for (int q=0; q \< 3; q++) { for (int i=0; i \<
strip.numPixels(); i=i+3) { strip.setPixelColor(i+q, c); //turn every third
pixel on } strip.show(); delay(wait); for (int i=0; i \< strip.numPixels();
i=i+3) { strip.setPixelColor(i+q, 0); //turn every third pixel off } }
}}//Theatre-style crawling lights with rainbow effectvoid
theaterChaseRainbow(uint8_t wait) { for (int j=0; j \< 256; j++) { // cycle all
256 colors in the wheel for (int q=0; q \< 3; q++) { for (int i=0; i \<
strip.numPixels(); i=i+3) { strip.setPixelColor(i+q, Wheel( (i+j) % 255));
//turn every third pixel on } strip.show(); delay(wait); for (int i=0; i \<
strip.numPixels(); i=i+3) { strip.setPixelColor(i+q, 0); //turn every third
pixel off } } }}// Input a value 0 to 255 to get a color value.// The colours
are a transition r - g - b - back to r.uint32_t Wheel(byte WheelPos) { WheelPos
= 255 - WheelPos; if(WheelPos \< 85) { return strip.Color(255 - WheelPos \* 3,
0, WheelPos \* 3); } if(WheelPos \< 170) { WheelPos -= 85; return strip.Color(0,
WheelPos \* 3, 255 - WheelPos \* 3); } WheelPos -= 170; return
strip.Color(WheelPos \* 3, 255 - WheelPos \* 3, 0);}**

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

**![ks0163 -code upload](media/c5c902c5eaa1dc55bceba79e02e62004.png)**

 Test Result

Done uploading the code to the board, you should see the 40 LEDs flashing with
shiny colors, circularly.

![ks0416 (5)](media/f22170444f8da3ef2a57c2e97b7eaaf4.jpeg)

![ks0416 (3)](media/131276d206ee14a74787891995e6302b.jpeg)

**Resource Links**

-   Download the data sheet, libraries and code :

<https://fs.keyestudio.com/KS0416>

# 
